Create integration testing post (#5037)
sourcegraph/about: blogposts/2021/integration-testing.md

---
title: 'How we added backend integration testing to our CI pipeline'
externalTitle: 'Adding backend integration testing to our CI'
description: "Here's the story, and the lessons learned, from our work to remove all existing backend-related end-to-end tests and reliably run their corresponding unit and/or integration tests as part of our CI pipeline on all branches."
externalDescription: "Integration testing isn't glamorous work, but it is impactful. Here's a behind-the-scenes look at how we worked toward a more reliable, less flaky testing suite."
author: Joe Chen
publishDate: 2021-12-22T18:00+02:00
tags: [blog]
slug: integration-testing

> heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/how-not-to-break-a-search-engine-unglamorous-engineering.jpg

Reviewer: @nickmyyz Can you add this as the social image too please? (just noticed as I was sharing the preview with our designer Kate!)

---
title: 'How we added backend integration testing to our CI pipeline'
externalTitle: 'Adding backend integration testing to our CI'
description: "Here's the story, and the lessons learned, from our work to remove all existing backend-related end-to-end tests and reliably run their corresponding unit and/or integration tests as part of our CI pipeline on all branches."
externalDescription: "Integration testing isn't glamorous work, but it is impactful. Here's a behind-the-scenes look at how we worked toward a more reliable, less flaky testing suite."
author: Joe Chen

> publishDate: 2021-12-22T18:00+02:00

Reviewer: @nickmyyz I don't think this is the problem, but you should update the publish date here

---
title: 'How we added backend integration testing to our CI pipeline'
externalTitle: 'Adding backend integration testing to our CI'

> description: 'Here's the story, and the lessons learned, from our work to remove all existing backend-related end-to-end tests and reliably run their corresponding unit and/or integration tests as part of our CI pipeline on all branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: "Here's the story, and the lessons learned, from our work to remove all existing backend-related end-to-end tests and reliably run their corresponding unit and/or integration tests as part of our CI pipeline on all branches."
```

> externalDescription: 'Integration testing isn't glamorous work, but it is impactful. Here's a behind-the-scenes look at how we worked toward a more reliable, less flaky testing suite.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
externalDescription: "Integration testing isn't glamorous work, but it is impactful. Here's a behind-the-scenes look at how we worked toward a more reliable, less flaky testing suite."
```

---

> title: 'How we added integration testing to our CI pipeline'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: 'How we added backend integration testing to our CI pipeline'
```

> externalTitle: 'Adding integration testing to our CI'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
externalTitle: 'Adding backend integration testing to our CI'
```

description: 'Here's the story, and the lessons learned, from our work to remove all existing backend-related end-to-end tests and reliably run their corresponding unit and/or integration tests as part of our CI pipeline on all branches. 
externalDescription: 'Integration testing isn't glamorous work, but it is impactful. Here's a behind-the-scenes look at how we worked toward a more reliable, less flaky testing suite.'
author: Joe Chen
publishDate: 2021-12-22T18:00+02:00
tags: [blog]
slug: integration-testing
heroImage: https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/how-not-to-break-a-search-engine-unglamorous-engineering.jpg
published: true
---

![Unglamorous engineering graphic](https://storage.googleapis.com/sourcegraph-assets/blog/how-not-to-break-a-search-engine-unglamorous-engineering.jpg)

> # How we added integration testing to our CI pipeline

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# How we added backend integration testing to our CI pipeline
```

> My name is Joe Chen and I’m on the Core Application team here at Sourcegraph. It’s our responsibility to cover all the needs of the other teams. Some of our previous work includes licensing enforcement, background permissions syncing, and an explicit permissions API.

Author: @unknwon Could we clarify what we mean here by "all the needs"? Can we specify, like, would saying "infrastructure needs" be accurate?

Reviewer 2: >Core Application team

This team no longer exists.

```suggestion
My name is Joe Chen and I was on the Core Application team at Sourcegraph. Our responsibility was to build and maintain the infrastructure of the Sourcegraph application for other teams. Some of our previous work includes licensing enforcement, background permissions syncing, and an explicit permissions API.
```

Currently I'm on Cloud SaaS but on a different mission, so I think current tense is not accurate. Feel free to tweak my suggestion before applying!

> In April of 2020, we decided to tackle integration testing. Integration testing isn’t something any single team could own because it involves code-based infrastructure. Therefore, it fell on the Core Application team.

Reviewer 2: I don't feel the cause-and-effect makes sense in this sentence.

```suggestion
In April of 2020, we decided to tackle integration testing. Although the integration testing isn’t something any single team could own, it involves code-based infrastructure and naturally fell on the Core Application team.
```

The goal was to remove all existing backend-related end-to-end tests and reliably run their corresponding unit and/or integration tests as part of our CI pipeline on all branches, the end result being a more reliable, less flaky testing suite.

> Integration isn’t glamorous work, but it’s necessary and, most importantly, impactful. Inspired by a previous post, H[ow not to break a search engine or: What I learned about unglamorous engineering](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/how-not-to-break-a-search-engine-unglamorous-engineering/), I wanted to share another piece of unglamorous engineering that, despite its lack of glamor, made a big impact.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Integration isn’t glamorous work, but it’s necessary and, most importantly, impactful. Inspired by a previous post, [How not to break a search engine or: What I learned about unglamorous engineering](https://about.sourcegraph.com/blog/how-not-to-break-a-search-engine-unglamorous-engineering/), I wanted to share another piece of unglamorous engineering that, despite its lack of glamor, made a big impact.
```

> ## Before integration testing

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Before backend integration testing
```

> Our work started with an [RFC](https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/company-info-and-process/communication/rfcs), or Request For Comment, that you can see [here](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LfCDPZZAkP4gFB0no-0Hb90EqMItnzv3YEb07B7WtrM/edit#heading=h.trqab8y0kufp).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Our work started with an [RFC](https://handbook.sourcegraph.com/company-info-and-process/communication/rfcs), or Request For Comment, that you can see [on our public RFCs folder](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1LfCDPZZAkP4gFB0no-0Hb90EqMItnzv3YEb07B7WtrM/edit#heading=h.trqab8y0kufp).
```

> Before integration testing, we were relying entirely on end-to-end tests written in Javascript. These tests would boot up a virtual browser, move the mouse, and click buttons–simulating a real user using the instance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Before having the backend integration testing, we were relying entirely on end-to-end tests written in JavaScript. These tests would boot up a virtual browser, move the mouse, and click buttons–simulating a real user using the instance.
```

> The problem with this method is that it’s not always stable and it’s easy to either time out or miss the button. The CI pipeline ends up becoming undependable, incurring a loss of trust in the end-to-end tests. Instead, we wanted to remove the browser manipulation layer and hit the APIs directly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The problem with this method is that it’s not always stable and it’s easy to either timeout or miss the button. The CI pipeline ends up becoming undependable, incurring a loss of trust in the end-to-end tests. Instead, we wanted to remove the browser manipulation layer and hit the APIs directly.
```

Reviewer: I think this is a grammatical issue – "timeout" is a noun, whereas here it's used as a verb so I would have it as two words.
